add v6.5.3 release notes (#13792)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-6.5.3.md

---
title: TiDB 6.5.3 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 6.5.3.
---

# TiDB 6.5.3 Release Notes

Release date: xxx, 2023

TiDB version: 6.5.3

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v6.5.3#version-list)

## Compatibility changes

- note 1

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - note 1

+ TiKV

    - note 1

+ PD

    - note 1

+ TiFlash

    - note 1

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - note 1

    + TiCDC

        <!--tw:hfxsd-->
        - Optimize the way TiCDC handles DDLs so that DDLs do not block the use of other unrelated DML Events, and reduce memory usage [#8106](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8106) [asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

>         - Optimize the Decoder interface and add a new parameter `AddKeyValue` [#8861](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8861) [3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Optimize the Decoder interface and add a new method `AddKeyValue` [#8861](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8861) [3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.5.3 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 6.5.3.
---

# TiDB 6.5.3 Release Notes

Release date: xxx, 2023

TiDB version: 6.5.3

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v6.5.3#version-list)

## Compatibility changes

- note 1

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    <!--tw:ran-huang-->
    - Improve the performance of `TRUNCATE` on partitioned tables with Placement Rules [#43070](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43070) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - Avoid invalid Stale Read retries after resolving locks [#43659](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43659) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)

>     - Reduce latency by using leader read when Stale Read encounters the `data-is-not-ready` error [#765](https://github.com/tikv/client-go/pull/765) @[Tema](https://github.com/Tema)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Reduce latency by using leader read when Stale Read encounters the `DataIsNotReady` error [#765](https://github.com/tikv/client-go/pull/765) @[Tema](https://github.com/Tema)
```

    <!--tw:oreoxmt-->
    - Add `Stale Read OPS` and `Stale Read MBps` metrics to track hit rate and traffic when using Stale Read [#43325](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43325) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)

+ TiKV

    <!--tw:ran-huang-->
    - Reduce traffic by using gzip to compress `check_leader` requests [#14839](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14839) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

+ PD

    <!--tw:ran-huang-->

>     - Use a separate gRPC connection for PD leader election to prevent the impact of other requests [#6464](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/6454) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Use a separate gRPC connection for PD leader election to prevent the impact of other requests [#6403](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6403) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
```

+ TiFlash

    - note 1

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - note 1

    + TiCDC

        <!--tw:hfxsd-->

>         - Optimize the way TiCDC handles DDLs so that DDLs do not block the use of other unrelated DML Events, and reduce memory usage [#8106](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8106) [asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Optimize the way TiCDC handles DDLs so that DDLs do not block the use of other unrelated DML events, and reduce memory usage [#8106](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8106) [asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

        - Optimize the Decoder interface and add a new method `AddKeyValue` [#8861](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8861) [3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Optimize the directory structure when DDL events occur in the scenario of replicating data to object storage [#8890](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8890) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Support replicating data to the Kafka-on-Pulsar downstream [#8892](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8892) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       <! --tw:qiancai-->
	        - Support using the OAUTH  protocol for validation in the scenarios of data replication to Kafka [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
	        - Optimize the handling of the `UPDATE` statement during data replication using the Avro or CSV protocol, by splitting `UPDATE` into `DELETE` and `INSERT`  statements, which enables you to get the old value before the change from the `DELETE` statement [#9086](https://github.com/pingcap) /tiflow/issues/9086) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - note 1

    + TiDB Lightning

        - note 1

    + Dumpling

        - note 1

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    <!--tw:ran-huang-->
    - Fix the issue that the `min, max` query result is incorrect [#43805](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43805) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Fix the issue of incorrect execution plans when pushing down window functions to TiFlash [#43922](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43922) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - Fix the issue that the query with CTE causes TiDB to hang [#43749](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43749) [#36896](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36896) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - Fix the issue that the SQL statement reports the `runtime error: index out of range` error when using the `AES_DECRYPT` expression [#43063](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43063) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

>     - Fix the issue that the `SHOW PROCESSLIST` statement cannot display the start ts of the transaction of the statement with a long subquery time [#40851](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40851) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `SHOW PROCESSLIST` statement cannot display the TxnStart of the transaction of the statement with a long subquery time [#40851](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40851) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
```

>     Fix the issue that PD isolation might cause the running DDL to be blocked [#44014](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44014) [#43755](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43755) [#44267](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44267) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Fix the issue that PD isolation might block the running DDL [#44014](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44014) [#43755](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43755) [#44267](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44267) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
```

    (dup: release-7.1.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB)- Fix the TiDB panic issue that occurs when querying union views and temporary tables with `UNION` [#42563](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42563) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - Fix the behavior issue of Placement Rules in partitioned tables, so that the Placement Rules in deleted partitions can be correctly set and recycled [#44116](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44116) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

>     - Fix the issue that truncating a partition of a partitioned table might cause the Placement Rule of the partition to be invalid [#44031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44031) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that truncating a partition of a partitioned table might cause the Placement Rule of the partition to become invalid [#44031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44031) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

+ TiKV

    <!--tw:ran-huang-->
    - Fix the issue of file handle leakage in Continuous Profiling [#14224](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14224) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)
    - Fix the issue that PD crash might cause PITR to fail to proceed [#14184](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14184) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
    (dup)- Fix the issue that encryption key ID conflict might cause the deletion of the old keys [#14585](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14585) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)
    - Fix the issue that autocommit and point get replica read might break linearizability [#14715](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14715) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
    (dup)- Fix the performance degradation issue caused by accumulated lock records when a cluster is upgraded from a previous version to v6.5 or later versions [#14780](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14780) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning might cause SST file leakage [#14745](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14745) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

>     - Fix the potential conflict between encryption key and raft log file deletion that might cause TiKV to fail to boot [#14761](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14761) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the potential conflict between the encryption key and raft log file deletion that might cause TiKV to fail to start [#14761](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14761) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
```

+ PD

    - note 1

+ TiFlash

    <!--tw:hfxsd-->
    - Fix the performance degradation issue of the partition TableScan operator during Region transfer [#7519](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7519) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - Fix the issue that a TiFlash query might report an error if the `GENERATED` type field is present along with a `TIMESTAMP` or `TIME` [#7468](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7468) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - Fix the issue that large update transactions might cause TiFlash to repeatedly report errors and restart [#7316](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7316) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

>     - Fix the issue that the error "Truncate error cast decimal as decimal" occurs when reading data from TiFlash with the INSERT SELECT statement [#7348](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7348) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the error "Truncate error cast decimal as decimal" occurs when reading data from TiFlash with the `INSERT SELECT` statement [#7348](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7348) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
```

    - Fix the issue that queries might consume more memory than needed when the data on the Join build side is very large and contains many small string type columns [#7416](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7416) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        <!--tw:ran-huang-->
        - Fix the issue that the error message "resolve lock timeout" of BR is misleading when a backup fails, which hides the actual error information [#43236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43236) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

    + TiCDC

        <!--tw:hfxsd-->
        - Fix an OOM issue that might occur when there are as many as 50,000 tables [#7872](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7872) [sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC gets stuck when an OOM occurs in upstream TiDB [#8561](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8561) [overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

>         - Fix the issue that TiCDC gets stuck when PD fails such as network isolation or PD Owner node reboot [#8808](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8808) [#8812](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8812) [#8877](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8877) [asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC gets stuck when PD fails such as network isolation or the PD Owner node reboots [#8808](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8808) [#8812](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8812) [#8877](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8877) [asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

+ PD

    <!--tw:ran-huang-->
    - Use a separate gRPC connection for PD leader election to prevent the impact of other requests [#6403](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6403) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

+ TiFlash

    - note 1

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - note 1

    + TiCDC

        <!--tw:hfxsd-->
        - Optimize the way TiCDC handles DDLs so that DDLs do not block the use of other unrelated DML Events, and reduce memory usage [#8106](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8106) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Optimize the Decoder interface and add a new method `AddKeyValue` [#8861](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8861) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Optimize the directory structure when DDL events occur in the scenario of replicating data to object storage [#8890](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8890) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Support replicating data to the Kafka-on-Pulsar downstream [#8892](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8892) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
       <! --tw:qiancai-->

> 	        - Support using the OAUTH  protocol for validation in the scenarios of data replication to Kafka [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
> 	        - Optimize the handling of the `UPDATE` statement during data replication using the Avro or CSV protocol, by splitting `UPDATE` into `DELETE` and `INSERT`  statements, which enables you to get the old value before the change from the `DELETE` statement [#9086](https://github.com/pingcap) /tiflow/issues/9086) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	    - Support using the OAUTH  protocol for validation in the scenarios of data replication to Kafka [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
	    - Optimize the handling of the `UPDATE` statement during data replication using the Avro or CSV protocol, by splitting `UPDATE` into `DELETE` and `INSERT`  statements, which enables you to get the old value before the change from the `DELETE` statement [#9086](https://github.com/pingcap) /tiflow/issues/9086) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

```

+ PD

    <!--tw:ran-huang-->
    - Use a separate gRPC connection for PD leader election to prevent the impact of other requests [#6403](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6403) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

+ TiFlash

    - note 1

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - note 1

    + TiCDC

        <!--tw:hfxsd-->
        - Optimize the way TiCDC handles DDLs so that DDLs do not block the use of other unrelated DML Events, and reduce memory usage [#8106](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8106) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Optimize the Decoder interface and add a new method `AddKeyValue` [#8861](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8861) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Optimize the directory structure when DDL events occur in the scenario of replicating data to object storage [#8890](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8890) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Support replicating data to the Kafka-on-Pulsar downstream [#8892](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8892) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

>        <! --tw:qiancai-->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       <!--tw:qiancai-->
```

> 	- Support using the OAUTH protocol for validation when replicating data to Kafka [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	- Support using the OAUTHBEARER protocol for validation when replicating data to Kafka [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

> 	- Support using the OAUTH protocol for validation in the scenario of data replication to Kafka [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	- Support using the OAUTH protocol for validation when replicating data to Kafka [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

> 	- Support using the OAUTH  protocol for validation in the scenarios of data replication to Kafka [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	- Support using the OAUTH protocol for validation in the scenario of data replication to Kafka [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

> 	- Optimize the way TiCDC handles the `UPDATE` statement during data replication using the Avro or CSV protocol, by splitting `UPDATE` into `DELETE` and `INSERT`  statements, so that you can get the old value before the change from the `DELETE` statement [#9086](https://github.com/pingcap) /tiflow/issues/9086) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Optimize the way TiCDC handles the `UPDATE` statement during data replication using the Avro or CSV protocol, by splitting `UPDATE` into `DELETE` and `INSERT` statements, so that you can get the old value from the `DELETE` statement [#9086](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9086) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

> 	- Optimize the handling of the `UPDATE` statement during data replication using the Avro or CSV protocol, by splitting `UPDATE` into `DELETE` and `INSERT`  statements, which enables you to get the old value before the change from the `DELETE` statement [#9086](https://github.com/pingcap) /tiflow/issues/9086) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	- Optimize the way TiCDC handles the `UPDATE` statement during data replication using the Avro or CSV protocol, by splitting `UPDATE` into `DELETE` and `INSERT`  statements, so that you can get the old value before the change from the `DELETE` statement [#9086](https://github.com/pingcap) /tiflow/issues/9086) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

    + TiCDC

        <!--tw:hfxsd-->
        - Fix an OOM issue that might occur when there are as many as 50,000 tables [#7872](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7872) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC gets stuck when an OOM occurs in upstream TiDB [#8561](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8561) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC gets stuck when PD fails such as network isolation or PD Owner node reboot [#8808](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8808) [#8812](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8812) [#8877](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8877) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Fix the issue of TiCDC time zone setting [#8798](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8798) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - Fix the issue that checkpoint lag increases when one of the upstream TiKV nodes crashes [#8858](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8858) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
        <!--tw:qiancai-->

>         - Fix the issue that in the scenario of data replication to downstream MySQL, a replication error occurs after the `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP` statement is executed in the upstream TiDB [#8040](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8040) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that when replicating data to downstream MySQL, a replication error occurs after the `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP` statement is executed in the upstream TiDB [#8040](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8040) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

>         - Fix the issue that in the scenario of data replication to downstream MySQL, an replication error occurs after the `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP` statement is executed in the upstream TiDB execute [#8040](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8040) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that in the scenario of data replication to downstream MySQL, a replication error occurs after the `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP` statement is executed in the upstream TiDB [#8040](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8040) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

        - Support replicating data to the Kafka-on-Pulsar downstream [#8892](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8892) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
       <!--tw:qiancai-->
        - Support using the OAuth protocol for validation when replicating data to Kafka [#8865](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8865) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - Optimize the way TiCDC handles the `UPDATE` statement during data replication using the Avro or CSV protocol, by splitting `UPDATE` into `DELETE` and `INSERT` statements, so that you can get the old value from the `DELETE` statement [#9086](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9086) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - (dup: release-7.1.0.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Add a configuration item `insecure-skip-verify` to control whether to set the authentication algorithm in the scenario of enabling TLS [#8867](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8867) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

>         - (dup: release-7.1.0.md > # Reliability)- TiCDC optimizes DDL replication operations to mitigate the impact of DDL operations on downstream latency [#8686](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8686) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - (dup: release-7.1.0.md > # Reliability)- Optimize DDL replication operations to mitigate the impact of DDL operations on downstream latency [#8686](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8686) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.5.3 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 6.5.3.
---

# TiDB 6.5.3 Release Notes

Release date: xxx, 2023

TiDB version: 6.5.3

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v6.5.3#version-list)

## Compatibility changes

- note 1

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - note 1

+ TiKV

    - note 1

+ PD

    - note 1

+ TiFlash

    - note 1

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - note 1

    + TiCDC

>         - note 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Optimize the way TiCDC handles DDLs so that DDLs do not block the use of other unrelated DML Events, and reduce memory usage [#8106](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8106) [asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Optimize the Decoder interface and add a new parameter `AddKeyValue` [#8861](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8861) [3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - note 1

    + TiDB Lightning

        - note 1

    + Dumpling

        - note 1

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    - note 1

+ TiKV

    - note 1

+ PD

    - note 1

+ TiFlash

>     - note 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <!--tw:hfxsd-->
    - 修复分区表查询报错的问题 [#7519](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7519) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - 修复在 GENERATED 类型表字段与 TIMESTAMP 或 TIME 类型同时存在的情况下，查询 TiFlash 可能会报错的问题 [#7468](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7468) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    (dup: release-7.1.0.md > 错误修复> TiFlash)- 修复大的更新事务可能会导致 TiFlash 反复报错重启的问题 [#7316](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7316) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - 修复 INSERT SELECT 语句从 TiFlash 读取数据时报错 "Truncate error cast decimal as decimal" 的问题 [#7348](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7348) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - 修复查询在 Join build 侧数据非常大，且包含许多小型字符串类型列时，消耗的内存可能会超过实际需要的问题 [#7416](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7416) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - note 1

    + TiCDC

>         - note 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <!--tw:hfxsd-->
        - Fix an OOM issue that might occur when there are as many as 50,000 tables [#7872](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7872) [sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC gets stuck when an OOM occurs in upstream TiDB [#8561](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8561) [overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC gets stuck when PD fails such as network isolation or PD Owner node reboot [#8808](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8808) [#8812](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8812) [#8877](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8877) [asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Fix the issue of TiCDC time zone setting [#8798](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8798) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - Fix the issue that checkpoint lag increases when one of the upstream TiKV nodes crashes [#8858](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8858) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
```
